For interactive visualization #1 (our world map), we wanted to learn about how the dataset and hotel visitor patterns differed based on the visitor’s country of origin. While we initially mapped the concentration of customers by country, we found this to be uninteresting due to the high concentration in Portugal and Spain where the hotels were located. As such, we pivoted to display the average daily rate customers from each country pay. The color gradient makes it really easy to see the variation across all the countries in the dataset, and see which countries are not included in the dataset. The tooltip provided when users hover over a country also allowed us to increase interactivity with the graph and display a litany of new and interesting information about the customers from that country.
        For interactive visualization #2 (our scatter plot), we wanted to see the relationship between the number of days booked in advance and the cost of the booking, so we thought using a scatter plot would be beneficial. We plotted the number of days booked in advance on the y-axis and the average daily cost of a booking on the x-axis. We plotted the data for both a city hotel and a resort hotel because we wanted to see if there was a difference in the relationship between the number of days booked in advance and the cost of the booking between the two types of hotels. We plotted the data for different room types because we wanted to see if there was a difference in the relationship between the number of days booked in advance and the cost of the booking between the different room types. We used different colors to distinguish between the different types of hotels because we wanted to make it easier for the reader to see which points correspond to which type of hotel and room type. We used a dropdown menu to select different types of hotels because we wanted to make it easier for the reader to see the relationship between the number of days booked in advance and the cost of the booking for each type of hotel. We used a dropdown menu to select different room types because we wanted to make it easier for the reader to see the relationship between the number of days booked in advance and the cost of the booking for each room type.
For static visualization #1 (our line plot), we wanted to see both the overall trends in cost over the period of a year and specific times in the period of a year when the price was cheapest/most expensive, we thought using a line graph showing each of the individual points would be beneficial. We plotted the average cost for each week in a year because we thought that plotting each day would be too much information for the reader to digest, and that plotting each month would not allow us to see enough specific detail about the price being most cheap/expensive. We plotted three different lines (one for each year) because we wanted to use all the data given (for the years 2015 - 2017), since just using the data for one year would not give an accurate sense of the trends (ex. if we only plotted the year where the price generally increased, but the other two years had the price generally decreasing, that would give the reader the wrong idea). We plotted each of the three lines in a different shade of purple because we wanted to emphasize that although they were different years, the year number is increasing (hence the lighter shade of purple to darker shade).
For static visualization #2 (our bar graph for the number of kids), we wanted to see how the number of kids affects the daily hotel rate so we decided to use a bar graph and average the daily rates. Originally there were two separate columns, one for kids and one for babies, but it made more sense to combine them together into a total_kids column. This allowed for a better understanding of how many kids were in each booking. We then averaged the daily rate based on each number of kids and created the graph.
For static visualization #3 (our bar graph for the hotel cancellations), we wanted to see how many bookings used a travel agent and how many didn’t, so we color coded the bars. The blue represented that a travel agent was not used and the orange represented that one was used. We also wanted to see the total number of cancellations based on travel agents. We decided to create two different bar graphs, one for canceled and the other for not canceled.


Link to our published website: https://chapinalf.github.io/DS4200-Final-Project/